 ## Function Statements vs. Function Expressions

In JavaScript, functions can be declared in two ways: as function statements or as function expressions.

### Function Statements

Function statements are the traditional way to declare functions in JavaScript. They are defined using the `function` keyword, followed by the function name, parentheses, and the function body. For example:

```javascript
function a() {
  console.log("a is called");
}
```

Function statements are hoisted to the top of their scope, which means that they can be called before they are declared. This is why the following code works:

```javascript
a(); // "a is called"

function a() {
  console.log("a is called");
}
```

### Function Expressions

Function expressions are a more modern way to declare functions in JavaScript. They are defined using the `function` keyword, followed by parentheses, and the function body. For example:

```javascript
var b = function () {
  console.log("b is called");
};
```

Function expressions are not hoisted to the top of their scope, which means that they cannot be called before they are declared. This is why the following code does not work:

```javascript
b(); // Uncaught ReferenceError: b is not defined

var b = function () {
  console.log("b is called");
};
```

### Hoisting

Hoisting is the process of moving declarations to the top of their scope. In JavaScript, function statements are hoisted, but function expressions are not. This can lead to errors if you try to call a function expression before it is declared.

### Conclusion

Function statements and function expressions are both valid ways to declare functions in JavaScript. However, there are some key differences between the two. Function statements are hoisted to the top of their scope, while function expressions are not. This means that function statements can be called before they are declared, while function expressions cannot.

In general, it is best to use function statements when you need to declare a function that will be called before it is declared. If you do not need to call the function before it is declared, you can use a function expression.

Generated by [BlackboxAI](https://www.blackbox.ai)